docs(readme): Add readme file. (#2)
douglasmakey/socket-sharding: readme.md

# Socket sharding in Linux with Go

> How many times that we were working on the terminal with multiple tabs and we launched an HTTP server, and then we forgot that the server was already being executed, and we tried to relaunch it from another tab getting the known error:

Reviewer: Si comenzaste con apertura de pregunta, debes terminar en alguna parte con el `?`

Si no, puedes cambiarla a algo como:

```suggestion
I bet there have been many times that you were working on the terminal with multiple tabs and you launched an HTTP server, and then you forgot that the server was already being executed, and then you tried to relaunch it from another tab getting the known error:
```

```bash
go run main.go 
listen tcp :8080: bind: address already in use
```
This is because we cannot open a socket with the same source address and port by default in Linux and the vast majority of operating systems.

### Socket options

> When we create a new TCP socket on a Linux, we can set options that affect the behaviour of the socket. For example, one of these options is SO_REUSEPORT, which allows multiple sockets to bind to the same IP address and port. With this feature, the Linux kernel distributes incoming requests across all the sockets that share the same address and port combination, getting a load balancing inside the Kernel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we create a new TCP socket on Linux, we can set options that affect the behaviour of the socket. For example, one of these options is `SO_REUSEPORT`, which allows multiple sockets to bind to the same IP address and port. With this feature, the Linux kernel distributes incoming requests across all the sockets that share the same address and port combination, getting a load balancing inside the Kernel.
```

> SO_REUSEPORT
> 
> For TCP sockets, this option allows accept(2) load distribution in a multi-threaded server to be improved by using a distinct listener socket for each thread.  This provides improved load distribution as compared to traditional techniques such using a single accept(2)ing thread that distributes connections, or having multiple threads that compete to accept(2) from the same socket.
> 
> For UDP sockets, the use of this option can provide better distribution of incoming datagrams to multiple processes (or threads) as compared to the traditional technique of having multiple processes compete to receive datagrams on the same socket.
> 
> https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/socket.7.html

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8400576/127754771-6a789f00-7022-4602-a628-a3d124b43421.png)

> As we can notice, we not only obtain the super power to create more than one socket with the same IP: Port combination, we also obtain a kind of load balancer in the kernel mode.

Reviewer: "Obtain" se refiere a algo como que perdiste y que re-encontraste. Mejor...

```suggestion
As we can notice, we not only get the super power to create more than one socket with the same IP: Port combination, but we also obtain a kind of load balancer in the kernel mode.
```

También hay una modificación menor al team de que si comenzaste con "we not only get" (que es una comparación) sino que necesitas tener un "pero" (but) en la siguiente idea.

### Go sockets

When we invoke the `net.Listen()` function in Go, this function use the `ListenConfig` struct to create the Listener.

```go
func Listen(network, address string) (Listener, error) {
	var lc ListenConfig
	return lc.Listen(context.Background(), network, address)
}
```

> If we inspect `ListenConfig,` we can find the method `Control,` and the documentation says: <mark>If Control is not nil, it is called after creating the network connection but before binding it to the operating system.</mark>

Reviewer: Jajaja este es un error de Grammarly, técnicamente, cuando escribes documentos, la coma va antes del cierre de un "caracter de grupo" (como por ejemplo, paréntesis, comillas, entre otros), entonces te insiste que la coma debe ir dentro de los backticks, pero no jajaja.

```suggestion
If we inspect `ListenConfig` we can find the method `Control` and the documentation says: <mark>If Control is not nil, it is called after creating the network connection but before binding it to the operating system.</mark>
```

```go
// ListenConfig contains options for listening to an address.
type ListenConfig struct {
	// If Control is not nil, it is called after creating the network
	// connection but before binding it to the operating system.
	// ...
	Control func(network, address string, c syscall.RawConn) error
	...
}
```

The function `Control` receives the `syscall.RawConn` which is a raw network connection that has a method also called control (`Control(f func(fd uintptr))`) where it will invoke the function `f` on the underlying connection's file descriptor.

> Having the file descriptor we can use the `golang.org/x/sys/unix` package to set the socket options.

Reviewer: Necesita una mejor conexión entre las dos oraciones...

```suggestion
Having the file descriptor, now we can use the `golang.org/x/sys/unix` package to set the socket options.
```

```go
// fd -> the underlying connection's file descriptor.
// unix.SOL_SOCKET  -> to set options at the socket level, we have to specify the level argument as SOL_SOCKET.
unix.SetsockoptInt(int(fd), unix.SOL_SOCKET, unix.SO_REUSEPORT, 1)
```

So, we could create a instance of `ListenConfig` with a control function to set the `SO_REUSEPORT` socket options to our sockets.

```go
var lc = net.ListenConfig{
	Control: func(network, address string, c syscall.RawConn) error {
		var opErr error
		if err := c.Control(func(fd uintptr) {
			opErr = unix.SetsockoptInt(int(fd), unix.SOL_SOCKET, unix.SO_REUSEPORT, 1)
		}); err != nil {
			return err
		}
		return opErr
	},
}
```

### Security

> One question we might have at this point is, what about security? I mean, if we can open a socket with the same IP: Port of a specific app, for example, Nginx, we could hijack part of the requests that the kernel will send to us through the socket. Right?v

Reviewer: Hay una `v` de sonbra....

```suggestion
One question we might have at this point is, what about security? I mean, if we can open a socket with the same IP: Port of a specific app, for example, Nginx, we could hijack part of the requests that the kernel will send to us through the socket. Right?
```

> Well, to prevent this "port hijacking," Linux has special limitations or mechanisms such as:

Reviewer: Esta oración está rara, usar la palabra "limitations" significa que estás diciendo que Linux "pierde poder", pero no es lo que quieres decir, sino más bien que Linux tiene protecciones o limitaciones para las apps finales... Qué tal si...

```suggestion
Well, to prevent this "port hijacking," Linux has special protections or mechanisms to prevent these problems, such as:
```

* Both sockets must have been created with the SO_REUSEPORT socket option. If there is a socket running without SO_REUSEPORT and we try to create another socket even with the SO_REUSEPORT socket option, it will fail with the error `already in use`. 

> * All sockets that want to listen to the same IP and port combination must have the same effective userID. For example, if you want to hijack the Nginx port and it is running under the ownership of the user Pepito, a new process can listen to the same port only if it is also owned by the user Pepito. So one user cannot "steal" ports of other users.

Reviewer: Esto es un poco más técnico, pero Docker containers no tienen usuarios (es decir, tienen user IDs pero no usuarios como tal). Es posible mapear un usuario interno a uno externo si conoces el `id -u` and `id -g`, pero dentro del container, el usuario será `nobody` a menos que sea agregado a `/etc/passwd`. 

Entonces la pregunta es, sabiendo eso, es el ownership de `SO_REUSEPORT` via "nombre de usuario" o UID:GID combo? Yo creo que es el último, pero quizás esté equivocado.

> As we can read above, with `SO_REUSEPORT,` we could run multiple instances of our app to take advantage of our resources without the necessity of running a proxy in front of them. Having multiple threads/processes/instances will have better performance than having a single one.

Reviewer: Esto igual es un "stretch"... Sí, quizás en ideas sencillas no se necesita el proxy, pero en ambientes más complejos, quizás necesites TLS termination, authn+authz, y un sinfín de otras cosas. Esto asume que la capa 7 ya va a venir bien "limpia" cuando el request entre, o de lo contrario, ambas apps con `SO_REUSEPORT` van a tener que hacer un poco de coordinación de capa 7 (hostnames, tls termination, etc).

En resumen, es bueno recomendar que "no haya la necesidad de usar un proxy" pero sería bueno decir "en los casos donde corresponda". Los proxies no son malos necesariamente.

> Also, `SO_REUSEPORT` can give us the possibility of zero downtime updates. Due to we can launch a new instance to receive requests and, after that, kill the old one with a graceful shutdown.

Reviewer: Para tener zero downtime updates necesitas poder darle "peso" (weighting) a los requests. Esto generalmente tiene nombres como "traffic shaping" o "traffic weighting" o incluso "sticky sessions" (donde un Load Balancer / Reverse Proxy recuerda a quién debe mandarle tráfico y a quién no).

Para tener zero downtime updates necesitas tener blue-green deployments, que necesitan lo que menciono antes. La idea es que mientras una app esté en puerto 80 y digamos que esté atendiendo 1 persona y que el request toma 1 hora, pero luego a los 10 minutos tú matas la app, eso no es zero downtime, porque acabas de cortar en seco al otro wn. 

La idea es "evacuar y/o esperar" a los usuarios que tengan requests activas y, al mismo tiempo, hacer que el "peso del tráfico" o el "resto del tráfico" se vaya a la segunda app. Cuando la primera app ya no tenga más requests que terminar de procesar y como ya le quitaste el peso al tráfico que viene para que no entre aquí, entonces sabes que puedes matar la app y tener "zero downtime". 

Esto es lo que Helm hace por ti...

Con todo esto... Habría que hacer un tanto de magia para tener realmente "zero downtime updates" con `SO_REUSEPORT`. Cómo harías el traffic weighting? O cómo harías el esperar que los usuarios que ya serviste terminen de ser servidos SIN aceptar más gente?

Reviewer: Una solución media extraña podría ser desactivar el `http.Server` en el graceful shutdown, pero permitir que las goroutinas restantes de las requests pasadas sigan funcionando. No sé qué tan posible sea porque el request debe responder también, y sin un `http.Server` activo, quizás al hacer eso la conexión se cierre... Pero hey, permitiría al menos no tener que recibir nuevas requests!
